monitoring_versioned_docs/version-22.10/events-alerts/managing-notifications/flapping.md, before:

---
id: flapping
title: Flapping
---

## Introduction

Centreon Engine supports optional detection of hosts and services that
are “flapping”. Flapping occurs when a service or host changes state too
frequently, resulting in a storm of problem and recovery notifications.
Flapping can be indicative of configuration problems (i.e. thresholds
set too low), troublesome services, or real network problems.

## How Flap Detection Works

Whenever Centreon Engine checks the status of a host or service, it will
check to see if it has started or stopped flapping. It does this by:

-   Storing the results of the last 21 checks of the host or service
-   Analyzing the historical check results and determine where state
    changes/transitions occur
-   Using the state transitions to determine a percent state change
    value (a measure of change) for the host or service
-   Comparing the percent state change value against low and high
    flapping thresholds

A host or service is determined to have started flapping when its
percent state change first exceeds a high flapping threshold.

A host or service is determined to have stopped flapping when its
percent state goes below a low flapping threshold (assuming that is was
previously flapping).

## Example

Let’s describe in more detail how flap detection works with services…

The image below shows a chronological history of service states from the
most recent 21 service checks. OK states are shown in green, WARNING
states in yellow, CRITICAL states in red, and UNKNOWN states in orange.

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/statetransitions.png)

The historical service check results are examined to determine where
state changes/transitions occur. State changes occur when an archived
state is different from the archived state that immediately precedes it
chronologically. Since we keep the results of the last 21 service checks
in the array, there is a possibility of having at most 20 state changes.
In this example there are 7 state changes, indicated by blue arrows in
the image above.

The flap detection logic uses the state changes to determine an overall
percent state change for the service. This is a measure of
volatility/change for the service. Services that never change state will
have a 0% state change value, while services that change state each time
they’re checked will have 100% state change. Most services will have a
percent state change somewhere in between.

When calculating the percent state change for the service, the flap
detection algorithm will give more weight to new state changes compare
to older ones. Specfically, the flap detection routines are currently
designed to make the newest possible state change carry 50% more weight
than the oldest possible state change. The image below shows how recent
state changes are given more weight than older state changes when
calculating the overall or total percent state change for a particular
service.

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/statetransitions2.png)

Using the images above, let’s do a calculation of percent state change
for the service. You will notice that there is a total of 7 state
changes (at t\_3, t\_4, t\_5, t\_9, t\_12, t\_16 and t\_19). Without any
weighting of the state changes over time, this would give us a total
state change of 35%:

(7 observed state changes / possible 20 state changes) \* 100 = 35 %

Since the flap detection logic will give newer state changes a higher
rate than older state changes, the actual calculated percent state
change will be slightly less than 35% in this example. Let’s say that
the weighted percent of state change turned out to be 31%…

The calculated percent state change for the service (31%) will then be
compared against flapping thresholds to see what should happen:

-   If the service was not previously flapping and 31% is equal to or
    greater than the high flap threshold, Centreon Engine considers the
    service to have just started flapping.
-   If the service was previously flapping and 31% is less than the low
    flap threshold, Centreon Engine considers the service to have just
    stopped flapping.

If neither of those two conditions are met, the flap detection logic
won’t do anything else with the service, since it is either not
currently flapping or it is still flapping.

## Configuration

### Enabling Flap Detection

Go to the **Configuration > Pollers > Engine configuration** menu and
select a scheduler (Centreon Engine). In the **Check Options** tab, you
can enable the detection of flapping:

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/flap_engine_conf.png)

You can modify the thresholds or keep preconfigured.

### Flap Detection for Services

If you enable the flapping detection for a scheduler (Centreon Engine),
the process will by applied for all resources monitored by it.

You can disable / enable flapping detection for a host through
configuration menu.

Go to the **Configuration > Hosts > Hosts** menu, select your host and go
on the **Data Processing** tab:

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/flap_host_conf.png)

You can also adapt flapping thresholds for this resource.

:::tip

Use templates to facilitate configuration

:::

### Flap Detection for Hosts

If you enable the flapping detection for a scheduler (Centreon Engine),
the process will by applied for all resources monitored by it.

You can disable / enable flapping detection for a service through
configuration menu.

Go to the **Configuration > Services > Services by host** menu, select
your service and go on the **Data Processing** tab:

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/flap_host_conf.png)

You can also adapt flapping thresholds for this resource.

:::tip

Use templates to facilitate configuration

:::

Commit message:

delete when possible the centreon word

monitoring_versioned_docs/version-22.10/events-alerts/managing-notifications/flapping.md, after:

---
id: flapping
title: Flapping
---

## Introduction

i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine supports optional detection of hosts and services that
are “flapping”. Flapping occurs when a service or host changes state too
frequently, resulting in a storm of problem and recovery notifications.
Flapping can be indicative of configuration problems (i.e. thresholds
set too low), troublesome services, or real network problems.

## How Flap Detection Works

Whenever i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine checks the status of a host or service, it will
check to see if it has started or stopped flapping. It does this by:

-   Storing the results of the last 21 checks of the host or service
-   Analyzing the historical check results and determine where state
    changes/transitions occur
-   Using the state transitions to determine a percent state change
    value (a measure of change) for the host or service
-   Comparing the percent state change value against low and high
    flapping thresholds

A host or service is determined to have started flapping when its
percent state change first exceeds a high flapping threshold.

A host or service is determined to have stopped flapping when its
percent state goes below a low flapping threshold (assuming that is was
previously flapping).

## Example

Let’s describe in more detail how flap detection works with services…

The image below shows a chronological history of service states from the
most recent 21 service checks. OK states are shown in green, WARNING
states in yellow, CRITICAL states in red, and UNKNOWN states in orange.

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/statetransitions.png)

The historical service check results are examined to determine where
state changes/transitions occur. State changes occur when an archived
state is different from the archived state that immediately precedes it
chronologically. Since we keep the results of the last 21 service checks
in the array, there is a possibility of having at most 20 state changes.
In this example there are 7 state changes, indicated by blue arrows in
the image above.

The flap detection logic uses the state changes to determine an overall
percent state change for the service. This is a measure of
volatility/change for the service. Services that never change state will
have a 0% state change value, while services that change state each time
they’re checked will have 100% state change. Most services will have a
percent state change somewhere in between.

When calculating the percent state change for the service, the flap
detection algorithm will give more weight to new state changes compare
to older ones. Specfically, the flap detection routines are currently
designed to make the newest possible state change carry 50% more weight
than the oldest possible state change. The image below shows how recent
state changes are given more weight than older state changes when
calculating the overall or total percent state change for a particular
service.

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/statetransitions2.png)

Using the images above, let’s do a calculation of percent state change
for the service. You will notice that there is a total of 7 state
changes (at t\_3, t\_4, t\_5, t\_9, t\_12, t\_16 and t\_19). Without any
weighting of the state changes over time, this would give us a total
state change of 35%:

(7 observed state changes / possible 20 state changes) \* 100 = 35 %

Since the flap detection logic will give newer state changes a higher
rate than older state changes, the actual calculated percent state
change will be slightly less than 35% in this example. Let’s say that
the weighted percent of state change turned out to be 31%…

The calculated percent state change for the service (31%) will then be
compared against flapping thresholds to see what should happen:

-   If the service was not previously flapping and 31% is equal to or
    greater than the high flap threshold, i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine considers the
    service to have just started flapping.
-   If the service was previously flapping and 31% is less than the low
    flap threshold, i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine considers the service to have just
    stopped flapping.

If neither of those two conditions are met, the flap detection logic
won’t do anything else with the service, since it is either not
currently flapping or it is still flapping.

## Configuration

### Enabling Flap Detection

Go to the **Configuration > Pollers > Engine configuration** menu and
select a scheduler (i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine). In the **Check Options** tab, you
can enable the detection of flapping:

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/flap_engine_conf.png)

You can modify the thresholds or keep preconfigured.

### Flap Detection for Services

If you enable the flapping detection for a scheduler (i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine),
the process will by applied for all resources monitored by it.

You can disable / enable flapping detection for a host through
configuration menu.

Go to the **Configuration > Hosts > Hosts** menu, select your host and go
on the **Data Processing** tab:

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/flap_host_conf.png)

You can also adapt flapping thresholds for this resource.

:::tip

Use templates to facilitate configuration

:::

### Flap Detection for Hosts

If you enable the flapping detection for a scheduler (i-Vertix IT Monitoring Engine),
the process will by applied for all resources monitored by it.

You can disable / enable flapping detection for a service through
configuration menu.

Go to the **Configuration > Services > Services by host** menu, select
your service and go on the **Data Processing** tab:

![image](../../assets/managing-notifications/flap_host_conf.png)

You can also adapt flapping thresholds for this resource.

:::tip

Use templates to facilitate configuration

:::
