monitoring_versioned_docs/version-24.10/intro.md, before:

---
id: intro
title: Getting started
---

Welcome to the comprehensive and game-changing i-Vertix IT Monitoring Solution manual your ultimate companion in unlocking the full potential of your IT infrastructure!

Our team of experts has meticulously crafted this guide to ensure you harness every ounce of i-Vertix's potential. From installation and configuration to advanced monitoring techniques, we leave no stone unturned in delivering comprehensive and easy-to-follow instructions.

We're excited to have you join us on this adventure of mastering the art of IT monitoring. So, fasten your seatbelts and get ready to embark on a remarkable journey of discovery and empowerment with i-Vertix IT Monitoring Solution. Let's elevate your IT infrastructure together!

## Before you start

* [Elements of i-Vertix platform](installation/before-you-start/platform.md)
* [Requirements](quick-start-guide/standard-vms-requirements/requirements.md)
* [Architectures](installation/before-you-start/architecture.md)

## Configuration

* [Setup Central and Poller](quick-start-guide/how-to-configure-central-and-poller/configuring-central-poller.md)

Commit message:

rework quick start guide - wip

monitoring_versioned_docs/version-24.10/intro.md, after:

---
id: intro
title: Getting started
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

Welcome to the comprehensive and game-changing i-Vertix IT Monitoring Solution manual - your ultimate companion in unlocking the full potential of your *IT Infrastructure Monitoring*!

Our team of experts has crafted this guide to ensure you harness every ounce of i-Vertix's potential.
We try to provide you with a mix of practical and technical resources to help you not only use but also master the *i-Vertix Monitoring* solution.

To quickly set up a fresh *i-Vertix Monitoring* environment, follow our [*Quick Start Guide*](./quick-start-guide/requirements) which covers the most important tasks.
Otherwise you can read the full [i-Vertix Installation](./installation/before-you-start/platform.md) documentation.

## Before you start

* [Elements of i-Vertix platform](installation/before-you-start/platform.md)
* [Requirements](quick-start-guide/standard-vms-requirements/requirements.md)
* [Architectures](installation/before-you-start/architecture.md)

## Configuration

* [Setup Central and Poller](quick-start-guide/how-to-configure-central-and-poller/configuring-central-poller.md)
