monitoring_versioned_docs/version-23.10/i-vertix-maps/map-types.md, before:

---
id: map-types
title: Maps overview
---

## Overview

Maps display **Host and Services health status information**, but they can also display **performance indicators** in **near real time**.

Maps can be configured from **Configuration  >  Maps menu**. Three types of maps are available:

### Graphical (normal) map

This type of map lets the user upload an image (such as a campus/building/floor map, a rack picture or a Visio network map screenshot) and use it as a static background, on which the user can place monitored Hosts and their Services.
Supported image formats are **.jpg .png .tiff** and **.bmp.**  
A shortcut/link to another map can also be placed in a map. 

![Image](../assets/maps/map_normal.png)

### Geographical map

This type of map shows the position of monitored Hosts, on a **dynamic geographical** map.
It can be useful to display geographically distributed networks. 
Geolocalization is performed through an integration with <u>www.openstreetmap.org</u> via its APIs.

![Image](../assets/maps/map_geo.png)

### Automap

These maps show **connectivity relations** among monitored devices. 
To configure such parent-child relations go to **Configuration  >  Hosts  > Hosts**, select a Host, and go to its Relations tab. 
**VMware discovery and Network Discovery automatically create them**.

To Add a new map, from **Configuration  >  Maps** click on **Add** 

Select **Map** to add a Graphical (Normal) map or a Geographical one, or **Automap**

![Image](../assets/maps/map_automap.png)

See the following thread for:

1. [Maps configuration](managing-maps.md)

2. [Edit maps](edit-maps.md)

3. [Visualize maps](visualize-maps.md)

Commit message:

rework i-vertix maps documentation and adapt to latest updates (topology map)

monitoring_versioned_docs/version-23.10/i-vertix-maps/map-types.md, after:

---
id: map-types
title: Overview
---

Maps display **Host and Services health status information**, but they can also display **performance indicators** in **near real time**.

Three types of maps are available:

### Graphical (normal) map

This type of map lets the user upload an image (such as a campus/building/floor map, a rack picture or a Visio network map screenshot) and use it as a static background, on which the user can place monitored Hosts and their Services.
Supported image formats are **.jpg .png .tiff** and **.bmp.**  
A shortcut/link to another map can also be placed in a map.

![Graphical Map](../assets/maps/map_normal.png)

Graphical maps can be configured on page `Configuration -> Maps` and viewed on `Monitoring -> Maps -> Maps`.

### Geographical map

This type of map shows the position of monitored Hosts, on a **dynamic geographical** map.
It can be useful to display geographically distributed networks.
Geolocalization is performed through an integration with `openstreetmap.org` via its APIs.

![Geographical Map](../assets/maps/map_geo.png)

Geographical maps can be configured on page `Configuration -> Maps` and viewed on `Monitoring -> Maps -> Maps`.

### Topology map

Such maps display the interconnectivity between monitored devices (hosts), along with the current device status.

This map type is useful to visualize network or reachability problems of monitored devices.

:::info

For this map to work properly, parent/child relations of hosts need to be configured.

Such relations are managed automatically when hosts are discovered from the network or the VMware discovery.
To configure relations manually, head over to `Configuration -> Hosts -> Hosts`, choose the host to configure, enter the `Relations` tab and choose the parent or dependant hosts.

:::

![Topology Map](../assets/maps/map_topology.png)

---

On the next section you find an explanation on how to add a new map.
