---
id: bi-overview
title: Introduction
---

## Overview

The i-Vertix IT Monitoring Business Intelligence module (also known as *i-Vertix Business Intelligence* or *i-Vertix BI* for short) brings new powerful and effective reporting capabilities to the IT Monitoring solution. i-Vertix Business Intelligence is a feature designed to help business users make critical decisions and facilitate the management of an IT environment. i-Vertix BI analyses data from monitored events and performance counters, providing you with full visibility of your infrastructure and application activity through reporting.

:::info

i-Vertix IT Monitoring Business Intelligence for advanced reporting is an additional add-on. Contact the [i-Vertix Sales Team](mailto:sales@i-vertix.com) for further information.

:::

i-Vertix BI offers a comprehensive suite of advanced reports that cover:

* **Availability & Events**: Track and report on system availability and significant events.
* **Service Level Agreement (SLA)**: Monitor compliance with service level agreements.
* **Performance**: Analyze system performance metrics.
* **Capacity**: Assess the capacity and utilization of IT resources.
* **Network**: Monitor and report on network performance and issues.
* **Virtualization**: Track virtual environments and resource allocation.
* **Storage**: Manage and optimize storage resources.
* **Green IT**: Report on energy consumption and sustainability initiatives.
* **Capacity Planning**: Forecast future resource needs and plan accordingly.
* **Predictive Trending**: Analyze trends to predict future performance and issues.

## Key features

The main functionalities of i-Vertix BI are as follows:

* **Report Store**: A centralized repository for all generated reports, ensuring easy access and organization.
* **Automated Report Scheduling and Delivery**: Automate the generation and distribution of reports to streamline workflows.
* **Data Warehouse**: Consolidate and analyze large volumes of data efficiently.
* **Custom Branding**: Personalize reports with custom logos to maintain corporate branding.
* **Multiple Output Formats**: Generate reports in various formats, including PDF, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, and HTML5, to meet different presentation needs.
* **Report History**: Access and review historical reports for trend analysis and compliance checks.
* **MSP Ready**: Features tailored for Managed Service Providers, enabling them to deliver high-quality services to their clients.
* **Third-Party BI Tool Integration**: Seamlessly integrate with other Business Intelligence tools for a more comprehensive data analysis and reporting ecosystem.

## Main Components

The i-Vertix Reporting module is divided into two main components: 
1. **i-Vertix BI monitoring module**: is installed on the monitoring instance. It is used to manage, configure and schedule reports and to manage installed report templates.
2. **i-Vertix BI instance**: separate instance running in parallel with the monitoring server. Holds the **data warehouse** and provides the **reporting engine**. Continuously receives and transforms the daily data generated by the monitoring checks and stores it in the data warehouse.

If you already have a respective license and want to set up your i-Vertix BI instance, have a look at our [Requirements datasheet](./bi-requirements.md) to get started with the installation.