---
id: netflow-overview
title: Introduction
---

The *i-Vertix IT Monitoring Netflow module* brings a complete new functionality and a lot of helpful views and reports
to the IT Monitoring solution. As the name *Netflow* already states, the new module is all about monitoring network
flows.
Practically saying:

- Who is talking to whom in your network?
- Which applications are used?
- How much traffic is generated by whom?
- Is there any suspicious traffic floating around in your network?
- Are there any throughput-bottlenecks present?

:::info

*i-Vertix IT Monitoring Netflow* is an additional add-on. Contact the [i-Vertix Sales Team](mailto:sales@i-vertix.com) for
further information.

:::

## Key features

Using the *i-Vertix IT Monitoring Netflow module* you can:

- view network flows in real time
- view recent network flows grouped by different values (e.g. application, protocol, client, server etc.)
- view past network flows (up to 1 year, depending on retention settings)
- view a traffic report
- analyze alerting flows (e.g. suspicious network requests)
- view network traffic by hosts

*and a lot more is about to come!*

We just started off with this new addition to our monitoring system. Stay tuned for more updates!

## Main components

The infrastructure for collecting network flows is similar to the normal monitoring infrastructure - consisting of
decentralized collectors and a central processing and storage system. Some of the infrastructure, such as the i-Vertix
Pollers can also be re-used (upgraded) to collect also flows.

### Netflow collector

Flows are sent from your L3 network devices, such as switches, routers or firewalls to our i-Vertix Netflow collector,
which can be installed on any existing [i-Vertix Poller](../glossary.md#smart-poller) (hardware or virtual machine) when
enough hardware resources are available.

Like the monitoring data which is gathered by the i-Vertix Poller engine, also the flows are sent to a centralized
managing system.

### Netflow Analyzer

The centralized **i-Vertix Netflow analyzer** receives all collected flows from the netflow collectors and processes,
aggregates, stores and provides the data afterwards for further use. It is best practice to align the Netflow analyzer
system next to the *Central Monitoring Manager* to minify the time of data exchange between the monitoring system and
the netflow analyzer when interacting with flows.
